README.md, before:

# msrsync: maximize rsync bandwidth usage

`msrsync` (multi-stream rsync) is a python wrapper around `rsync`. It only depends on `python >= 2.6` and `rsync`.

It will split the transfer in multiple buckets while the source is scanned and will hopefully help maximizing the usage of the available bandwidth by running a configurable number of `rsync` processes in parallel. The main limitation is it does not handle remote source or target directory, they must be locally accessible (local disk, nfs/cifs/other mountpoint). I hope to address this in a near future.

## Notes from Terra (@RainofTerra)
I wanted this working on Python3 so I grabbed somebody else's Python3 fork. I might update maintain or (more likely) I might forget I did this when I'm not looking at an enormous network rsync. 🤷🏻‍♀️

## Quick example

```bash
$ msrsync -p 4 /source /destination # you can also use -P/--progress and --stats options
```

This will copy /source directory in the /destination directory (same behaviour as `rsync` regarding the slash handling) using 4 `rsync` processes (using `"-aS --numeric-ids"` as default option. Could be override with `--rsync` option). `msrsync` will split the files and directory list into bucket of 1G or 1000 files maximum (see `--size` and `--files` options) before feeding them to each `rsync` process in parallel using the `--files-from` option. As long as the source and the destination can cope with the parallel I/O (think big boring "enterprise grade" NAS), it should be faster than a single `rsync`.

> `msrsync` shares the same spirit as [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) (and its [fpsync](https://github.com/martymac/fpart/blob/master/tools/fpsync) associated tool) by [Ganaël Laplanche](https://github.com/martymac) or [parsync](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/parsync/) by [Harry Mangalam](https://github.com/hjmangalam). Those are two fantastic much more complete tools used in the field to do real work. Please check them out, they might be what you're looking for.

## Motivation

Why write `msrsync` if tools like [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart), [parsync](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/parsync/) or [pftool](https://github.com/pftool/pftool) exist ? While reasonable, their dependencies can be a point of friction given the constraints we can have on a given system. When you're lucky, you can use your package manager ([fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) seems to be well supported among various GNU/Linux and FreeBSD distribution: [FreeBSD](http://www.freshports.org/sysutils/fpart), [Debian](http://packages.debian.org/fpart), [Ubuntu](http://packages.ubuntu.com/fpart), [Archlinux](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/fpart/), [OBS](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:mgoppold/fpart)) to deal with the requirements but more often than not, I found myself struggling with the sad state of the machine I'm working with.

That's why the only dependencies of msrsync are [python](https://www.python.org/) >=2.6 and [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/). What python 2.6 ? I'm aiming RHEL6 like distribution as a minimum requirement here, so I'm stuck with python 2.6. I miss some cool features, but that's part of the project.

The devil is in the details. If you need a starting point to think about data migration, this overview by Jeff Layton is very informative: [Moving Your Data – It’s Not Always Pleasant](http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/Moving-Your-Data-It-s-Not-Always-Pleasant).

The "[How to transfer large amounts of data via network](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/HOWTO_move_data.html)" article by `parsync` author is updated regularly and its worth a read also.

If you can read french, I co-wrote an article with [Ganaël Laplanche](https://github.com/martymac) about [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) : [Parallélisez vos transferts de fichiers](http://connect.ed-diamond.com/GNU-Linux-Magazine/GLMF-164/Parallelisez-vos-transferts-de-fichiers).

You might be also interested by this Intel whitepaper on data migration : [Data Migration with
Intel® Enterprise Edition for Lustre* Software](http://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/public/us/en/documents/white-papers/data-migration-enterprise-edition-for-lustre-software-white-paper.pdf) which mentions all of those tools (but not `msrsync`).

## Requirements

[python](python) >= 3.6 and [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/)

## Installation

`msrsync` is a single python file, you just have to download it. Or if you prefer, you can clone the repository and use the provided Makefile:

```bash
$ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jbd/msrsync/master/msrsync && chmod +x msrsync
```
or
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/jbd/msrsync && cd msrsync && sudo make install
```

## Usage

```
$ msrsync --help
usage: msrsync [options] [--rsync "rsync-options-string"] SRCDIR [SRCDIR2...] DESTDIR
   or: msrsync --selftest

msrsync options:
    -p, --processes ...   number of rsync processes to use [1]
    -f, --files ...       limit buckets to <files> files number [1000]
    -s, --size ...        limit partitions to BYTES size (1024 suffixes: K, M, G, T, P, E, Z, Y) [1G]
    -b, --buckets ...     where to put the buckets files (default: auto temporary directory)
    -k, --keep            do not remove buckets directory at the end
    -j, --show            show bucket directory
    -P, --progress        show progress
    --stats               show additional stats
    -d, --dry-run         do not run rsync processes
    -v, --version         print version

rsync options:
    -r, --rsync ...       MUST be last option. rsync options as a quoted string ["-aS --numeric-ids"]. The "--from0 --files-from=... --quiet --verbose --stats --log-file=..." options will ALWAYS be added, no
                            matter what. Be aware that this will affect all rsync *from/filter files if you want to use them. See rsync(1) manpage for details.

self-test options:
    -t, --selftest        run the integrated unit and functional tests
    -e, --bench           run benchmarks
    -g, --benchshm        run benchmarks in /dev/shm or the directory in $SHM environment variable
```

If you want to use specific options for the rsync processes, use the `--rsync` option.

```bash
$ msrsync -p4 --rsync "-a --numeric-ids --inplace" source destination
```

Some examples:
```
$ msrsync -p 8 /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
```
```
$ msrsync -P -p 8 /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
[33491/33491 entries] [602.1 M/602.1 M transferred] [3378 entries/s] [60.7 M/s bw] [monq 1] [jq 1]
```
```
$ msrsync -P -p 8 --stats /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
[33491/33491 entries] [602.1 M/602.1 M transferred] [3533 entries/s] [63.5 M/s bw] [monq 1] [jq 1]
Status: SUCCESS
Working directory: /home/jbdenis/Code/msrsync
Command line: ./msrsync -P -p 8 --stats /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
Total size: 602.1 M
Total entries: 33491
Buckets number: 34
Mean entries per bucket: 985
Mean size per bucket: 17.7 M
Entries per second: 3533
Speed: 63.5 M/s
Rsync workers: 8
Total rsync's processes (34) cumulative runtime: 73.0s
Crawl time: 0.4s (4.3% of total runtime)
Total time: 9.5s
```

## Performance

You can launch a benchmark using the `--bench` option or `make bench`. It is only for testing purpose. They are comparing the performance between vanilla `rsync` and `msrsync` using multiple options. Since I'm just creating a huge fake file tree with empty files, you won't see any `msrsync` benefits here, unless you're trying with many many files. They need to be run as root since I'm dropping disk cache between run.

```
$ sudo make bench # or sudo msrsync --bench
Benchmarks with 100000 entries (95% of files):
rsync -a --numeric-ids took 14.05 seconds (speedup x1)
msrsync --processes 1 --files 1000 --size 1G took 18.58 seconds (speedup x0.76)
msrsync --processes 2 --files 1000 --size 1G took 10.61 seconds (speedup x1.32)
msrsync --processes 4 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.60 seconds (speedup x2.13)
msrsync --processes 8 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.58 seconds (speedup x2.14)
msrsync --processes 16 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.66 seconds (speedup x2.11)
```

Please test on real data instead =). There is also a `--benchshm` option that will perform the benchmark in `/dev/shm`.

Here is a real test on a big nas box (not known for handling small files well) on a 1G network (you'll see that is more than useless due to the I/O overhead) with the [linux 4.0.4](https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v4.x/linux-4.0.4.tar.xz) kernel decompressed source 21 times in different folders:

```
$ ls /mnt/nfs/linux-src/
0  1  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  2  20  3  4  5  6  7  8  9
$ du -s --apparent-size --bytes /mnt/nfs/linux-src
11688149821     /mnt/nfs/linux-src
$ du -s --apparent-size --human /mnt/nfs/linux-src
11G     /mnt/nfs/linux-src
$ find /mnt/nfs/linux-src -type f | wc -l
1027908
$ find /mnt/nfs/linux-src -type d | wc -l
66360
```

The source and the destination are on an nfs mount.

Let's run `rsync` and `msrsync` with a various number of process:

```
$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ time rsync -a --numeric-ids /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    136m10.406s
user    1m54.939s
sys     7m31.188s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 1 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    144m8.954s
user    2m20.426s
sys     8m4.127s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 2 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    73m57.312s
user    2m27.543s
sys     7m56.484s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 4 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    42m31.105s
user    2m24.196s
sys     7m46.568s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 8 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    36m55.141s
user    2m27.149s
sys     7m40.392s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 16 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    33m0.976s
user    2m35.848s
sys     7m40.623s
```

Ridiculous rates due to the size of each file and the I/O overhead (nfs + network), but that's a real use case and we've got nice speedup without too much thinking : just use msrync and you're good to go. That's exactly what I wanted. Here is a summary of the previous
results:

| Command       |  Time      | Entries per second   | Bandwidth (MBytes/s) | Speedup |
| --------      |:----------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:-------:|
| rsync         | 136m10s    |       133            |      1.36            |   x1    |
| msrsync -p 1  | 144m9s     |       126            |      1.28            |   x0.94 |
| msrsync -p 2  | 73m57s     |       246            |      2.51            |   x1.84 |
| msrsync -p 4  | 42m31s     |       428            |      4.36            |   x3.20 |
| msrsync -p 8  | 36m55s     |       494            |      5.03            |   x3.68 |
| msrsync -p 16 | 33m0s      |       552            |      5.62            |   x4.12 |

Astute readers will notify the slight overhead of `msrync` over the equivalent `rsync` in the single process case. This overhead vanishes (but still exists) when you increase processes number.

## Notes

- The `rsync` processes are always run with the `--from0 --files-from=... --quiet --verbose --stats --log-file=...` options, no matter what. `--from0` option affects `--exclude-from`, `--include-from`, `--files-from`, and any merged files specified in a `--filter` rule.

- This may seem obvious but if the source or the destination of the copy cannot handle parallel I/O well, you won't see any benefits (quite the opposite in fact) using `msrsync`.

## Development

I'm targeting python 2.6 without external dependencies besides rsync. The provided Makefile is just an helper around the embedded testing and coverage.py:

```
$ make help
Please use `make <target>' where <target> is one of
  clean         => clean all generated files
  cov           => coverage report using /usr/bin/python-coverage (use COVERAGE env to change that)
  covhtml       => coverage html report
  man           => build manpage
  test          => run embedded tests
  install       => install msrsync in /usr/bin (use DESTDIR env to change that)
  lint          => run pylint
  bench         => run benchmarks (linux only. Need root to drop buffer cache between run)
  benchshm      => run benchmarks using /dev/shm (linux only. Need root to drop buffer cache between run)

```
There is an integrated test suite (`--selftest` option, or `make test`). Since I'm using unittest from python 2.6 library, I cannot capture the output of the tests (buffer parameter from TestResult object appeared in 2.7).

```
$ make test # or msrsync --selftest
test_get_human_size (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert bytes to human readable string ... ok
test_get_human_size2 (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert bytes to human readable string ... ok
test_human_size (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert human readable size to bytes ... ok
...
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_2_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_4_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_8_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_simple_msrsync_cli (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_simple_rsync (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple rsync synchronisation ... ok

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 29 tests in 3.320s

OK
```

## msrsync3
carlilek: Added a python3 specific version called msrsync3. Not completely tested, use at your own risk. All command line options are the same as msrsync.
```

Commit message:

Set multiprocessing to use fork on MacOS (unsafe)

README.md, after:

# msrsync: maximize rsync bandwidth usage

`msrsync` (multi-stream rsync) is a python wrapper around `rsync`. It only depends on `python >= 2.6` and `rsync`.

It will split the transfer in multiple buckets while the source is scanned and will hopefully help maximizing the usage of the available bandwidth by running a configurable number of `rsync` processes in parallel. The main limitation is it does not handle remote source or target directory, they must be locally accessible (local disk, nfs/cifs/other mountpoint). I hope to address this in a near future.

## Notes from Terra (@RainofTerra)
I wanted this working on Python3 so I grabbed somebody else's Python3 fork. I might update maintain or (more likely) I might forget I did this when I'm not looking at an enormous network rsync. 🤷🏻‍♀️

I changed it to explicitly set `multiprocessing.set_start_method('fork')` because spawn is the new default for Python on MacOS but I don't have time to change this to use `multiprocessing.set_start_method('spawn')` right now so buyer beware etc.

## Quick example

```bash
$ msrsync -p 4 /source /destination # you can also use -P/--progress and --stats options
```

This will copy /source directory in the /destination directory (same behaviour as `rsync` regarding the slash handling) using 4 `rsync` processes (using `"-aS --numeric-ids"` as default option. Could be override with `--rsync` option). `msrsync` will split the files and directory list into bucket of 1G or 1000 files maximum (see `--size` and `--files` options) before feeding them to each `rsync` process in parallel using the `--files-from` option. As long as the source and the destination can cope with the parallel I/O (think big boring "enterprise grade" NAS), it should be faster than a single `rsync`.

> `msrsync` shares the same spirit as [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) (and its [fpsync](https://github.com/martymac/fpart/blob/master/tools/fpsync) associated tool) by [Ganaël Laplanche](https://github.com/martymac) or [parsync](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/parsync/) by [Harry Mangalam](https://github.com/hjmangalam). Those are two fantastic much more complete tools used in the field to do real work. Please check them out, they might be what you're looking for.

## Motivation

Why write `msrsync` if tools like [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart), [parsync](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/parsync/) or [pftool](https://github.com/pftool/pftool) exist ? While reasonable, their dependencies can be a point of friction given the constraints we can have on a given system. When you're lucky, you can use your package manager ([fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) seems to be well supported among various GNU/Linux and FreeBSD distribution: [FreeBSD](http://www.freshports.org/sysutils/fpart), [Debian](http://packages.debian.org/fpart), [Ubuntu](http://packages.ubuntu.com/fpart), [Archlinux](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/fpart/), [OBS](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:mgoppold/fpart)) to deal with the requirements but more often than not, I found myself struggling with the sad state of the machine I'm working with.

That's why the only dependencies of msrsync are [python](https://www.python.org/) >=2.6 and [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/). What python 2.6 ? I'm aiming RHEL6 like distribution as a minimum requirement here, so I'm stuck with python 2.6. I miss some cool features, but that's part of the project.

The devil is in the details. If you need a starting point to think about data migration, this overview by Jeff Layton is very informative: [Moving Your Data – It’s Not Always Pleasant](http://www.admin-magazine.com/HPC/Articles/Moving-Your-Data-It-s-Not-Always-Pleasant).

The "[How to transfer large amounts of data via network](http://moo.nac.uci.edu/~hjm/HOWTO_move_data.html)" article by `parsync` author is updated regularly and its worth a read also.

If you can read french, I co-wrote an article with [Ganaël Laplanche](https://github.com/martymac) about [fpart](https://github.com/martymac/fpart) : [Parallélisez vos transferts de fichiers](http://connect.ed-diamond.com/GNU-Linux-Magazine/GLMF-164/Parallelisez-vos-transferts-de-fichiers).

You might be also interested by this Intel whitepaper on data migration : [Data Migration with
Intel® Enterprise Edition for Lustre* Software](http://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/public/us/en/documents/white-papers/data-migration-enterprise-edition-for-lustre-software-white-paper.pdf) which mentions all of those tools (but not `msrsync`).

## Requirements

[python](python) >= 3.6 and [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/)

## Installation

`msrsync` is a single python file, you just have to download it. Or if you prefer, you can clone the repository and use the provided Makefile:

```bash
$ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jbd/msrsync/master/msrsync && chmod +x msrsync
```
or
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/jbd/msrsync && cd msrsync && sudo make install
```

## Usage

```
$ msrsync --help
usage: msrsync [options] [--rsync "rsync-options-string"] SRCDIR [SRCDIR2...] DESTDIR
   or: msrsync --selftest

msrsync options:
    -p, --processes ...   number of rsync processes to use [1]
    -f, --files ...       limit buckets to <files> files number [1000]
    -s, --size ...        limit partitions to BYTES size (1024 suffixes: K, M, G, T, P, E, Z, Y) [1G]
    -b, --buckets ...     where to put the buckets files (default: auto temporary directory)
    -k, --keep            do not remove buckets directory at the end
    -j, --show            show bucket directory
    -P, --progress        show progress
    --stats               show additional stats
    -d, --dry-run         do not run rsync processes
    -v, --version         print version

rsync options:
    -r, --rsync ...       MUST be last option. rsync options as a quoted string ["-aS --numeric-ids"]. The "--from0 --files-from=... --quiet --verbose --stats --log-file=..." options will ALWAYS be added, no
                            matter what. Be aware that this will affect all rsync *from/filter files if you want to use them. See rsync(1) manpage for details.

self-test options:
    -t, --selftest        run the integrated unit and functional tests
    -e, --bench           run benchmarks
    -g, --benchshm        run benchmarks in /dev/shm or the directory in $SHM environment variable
```

If you want to use specific options for the rsync processes, use the `--rsync` option.

```bash
$ msrsync -p4 --rsync "-a --numeric-ids --inplace" source destination
```

Some examples:
```
$ msrsync -p 8 /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
```
```
$ msrsync -P -p 8 /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
[33491/33491 entries] [602.1 M/602.1 M transferred] [3378 entries/s] [60.7 M/s bw] [monq 1] [jq 1]
```
```
$ msrsync -P -p 8 --stats /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
[33491/33491 entries] [602.1 M/602.1 M transferred] [3533 entries/s] [63.5 M/s bw] [monq 1] [jq 1]
Status: SUCCESS
Working directory: /home/jbdenis/Code/msrsync
Command line: ./msrsync -P -p 8 --stats /usr/share/doc/ /tmp/doc/
Total size: 602.1 M
Total entries: 33491
Buckets number: 34
Mean entries per bucket: 985
Mean size per bucket: 17.7 M
Entries per second: 3533
Speed: 63.5 M/s
Rsync workers: 8
Total rsync's processes (34) cumulative runtime: 73.0s
Crawl time: 0.4s (4.3% of total runtime)
Total time: 9.5s
```

## Performance

You can launch a benchmark using the `--bench` option or `make bench`. It is only for testing purpose. They are comparing the performance between vanilla `rsync` and `msrsync` using multiple options. Since I'm just creating a huge fake file tree with empty files, you won't see any `msrsync` benefits here, unless you're trying with many many files. They need to be run as root since I'm dropping disk cache between run.

```
$ sudo make bench # or sudo msrsync --bench
Benchmarks with 100000 entries (95% of files):
rsync -a --numeric-ids took 14.05 seconds (speedup x1)
msrsync --processes 1 --files 1000 --size 1G took 18.58 seconds (speedup x0.76)
msrsync --processes 2 --files 1000 --size 1G took 10.61 seconds (speedup x1.32)
msrsync --processes 4 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.60 seconds (speedup x2.13)
msrsync --processes 8 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.58 seconds (speedup x2.14)
msrsync --processes 16 --files 1000 --size 1G took 6.66 seconds (speedup x2.11)
```

Please test on real data instead =). There is also a `--benchshm` option that will perform the benchmark in `/dev/shm`.

Here is a real test on a big nas box (not known for handling small files well) on a 1G network (you'll see that is more than useless due to the I/O overhead) with the [linux 4.0.4](https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v4.x/linux-4.0.4.tar.xz) kernel decompressed source 21 times in different folders:

```
$ ls /mnt/nfs/linux-src/
0  1  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  2  20  3  4  5  6  7  8  9
$ du -s --apparent-size --bytes /mnt/nfs/linux-src
11688149821     /mnt/nfs/linux-src
$ du -s --apparent-size --human /mnt/nfs/linux-src
11G     /mnt/nfs/linux-src
$ find /mnt/nfs/linux-src -type f | wc -l
1027908
$ find /mnt/nfs/linux-src -type d | wc -l
66360
```

The source and the destination are on an nfs mount.

Let's run `rsync` and `msrsync` with a various number of process:

```
$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ time rsync -a --numeric-ids /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    136m10.406s
user    1m54.939s
sys     7m31.188s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 1 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    144m8.954s
user    2m20.426s
sys     8m4.127s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 2 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    73m57.312s
user    2m27.543s
sys     7m56.484s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 4 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    42m31.105s
user    2m24.196s
sys     7m46.568s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 8 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    36m55.141s
user    2m27.149s
sys     7m40.392s

$ rm -rf /mnt/nfs/dest
$ echo 3 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches > /dev/null
$ msrsync -p 16 /mnt/nfs/linux-src /mnt/nfs/dest

real    33m0.976s
user    2m35.848s
sys     7m40.623s
```

Ridiculous rates due to the size of each file and the I/O overhead (nfs + network), but that's a real use case and we've got nice speedup without too much thinking : just use msrync and you're good to go. That's exactly what I wanted. Here is a summary of the previous
results:

| Command       |  Time      | Entries per second   | Bandwidth (MBytes/s) | Speedup |
| --------      |:----------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:-------:|
| rsync         | 136m10s    |       133            |      1.36            |   x1    |
| msrsync -p 1  | 144m9s     |       126            |      1.28            |   x0.94 |
| msrsync -p 2  | 73m57s     |       246            |      2.51            |   x1.84 |
| msrsync -p 4  | 42m31s     |       428            |      4.36            |   x3.20 |
| msrsync -p 8  | 36m55s     |       494            |      5.03            |   x3.68 |
| msrsync -p 16 | 33m0s      |       552            |      5.62            |   x4.12 |

Astute readers will notify the slight overhead of `msrync` over the equivalent `rsync` in the single process case. This overhead vanishes (but still exists) when you increase processes number.

## Notes

- The `rsync` processes are always run with the `--from0 --files-from=... --quiet --verbose --stats --log-file=...` options, no matter what. `--from0` option affects `--exclude-from`, `--include-from`, `--files-from`, and any merged files specified in a `--filter` rule.

- This may seem obvious but if the source or the destination of the copy cannot handle parallel I/O well, you won't see any benefits (quite the opposite in fact) using `msrsync`.

## Development

I'm targeting python 2.6 without external dependencies besides rsync. The provided Makefile is just an helper around the embedded testing and coverage.py:

```
$ make help
Please use `make <target>' where <target> is one of
  clean         => clean all generated files
  cov           => coverage report using /usr/bin/python-coverage (use COVERAGE env to change that)
  covhtml       => coverage html report
  man           => build manpage
  test          => run embedded tests
  install       => install msrsync in /usr/bin (use DESTDIR env to change that)
  lint          => run pylint
  bench         => run benchmarks (linux only. Need root to drop buffer cache between run)
  benchshm      => run benchmarks using /dev/shm (linux only. Need root to drop buffer cache between run)

```
There is an integrated test suite (`--selftest` option, or `make test`). Since I'm using unittest from python 2.6 library, I cannot capture the output of the tests (buffer parameter from TestResult object appeared in 2.7).

```
$ make test # or msrsync --selftest
test_get_human_size (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert bytes to human readable string ... ok
test_get_human_size2 (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert bytes to human readable string ... ok
test_human_size (__main__.TestHelpers)
convert human readable size to bytes ... ok
...
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_2_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_4_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_msrsync_cli_8_processes (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_simple_msrsync_cli (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple msrsync synchronisation ... ok
test_simple_rsync (__main__.TestSyncCLI)
test simple rsync synchronisation ... ok

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 29 tests in 3.320s

OK
```

## msrsync3
carlilek: Added a python3 specific version called msrsync3. Not completely tested, use at your own risk. All command line options are the same as msrsync.
```
